# Testnet Release 0.0.1 (alpha)

Dear `___`,

Thank you for volunteering to help provide us with feedback/testing on the alpha release of the software we have been hard at work with in order to realize the vision as laid out in our whitepaper.

Today, we are providing a pre-release of the Fotos mobile application and some of the Box components that will be pre-installed on Box customer's raspberry Pis when they are shipped.

The software we are delivering to you today can give you an idea of how Fotos will backup and store your photos and video to the Box.

It includes client side encryption as a first layer of security to help protect Fotos users from having others access their photos and video.

However, because the software we are delivering is fresh off the press and still not properly audited, PLEASE USE WITH CAUTION.

At this point, we recommend you not upload any highly sensitive media to the Box or use it as a primary backup facility.

Please also note, Fotos is currently only released on Android.  If you are running iOS and would like to start testing it out then please let us know at [@TODO include support contact](https://community.fx.land/support) page.

The purpose of getting this into your hands at such an early stage in the release lifecycle is we are hoping you will help us with:

1.  Finding errors and edge cases (especially long lived) before we launch.

2.  Gather feedback so we can ensure we are delivering on what is important when we ship.

3.  Build community / rapport with you (our most important early adopters).

To this last point, we have also created a new [Discourse community](https://community.fx.land) where we are hoping you can network with us Functionlanders as well as other volunteers in the community who share similar ideals to youself.

## Setup

Once you have everything setup you should have two Boxes talking to each other running on your host machine and be able to upload photos from your mobile phone to one of the Boxes encrypted with a key from your wallet.

You can then go ahead and run the web gallery sample app to verify that the photos are in fact synced to both Boxes and that you are able to view them on a different device.

### Box Setup

First you can follow the instructions [over here](https://github.com/functionland/fula/tree/main/apps/cluster) for setting up a local swarm on your host machine with Docker.

### Fotos Setup

Once you have verified the Boxes are running and connected from the logs you can install Fotos and configure it to connect to Box0.

First, download Fotos from the [app center](https://install.appcenter.ms/orgs/fx.-land/apps/photos/distribution_groups/public%20testers/releases/17) and install it.

Next open Fotos and [@TODO insert info on finding the Box address]

## Have an idea or feature request?

We would love to hear back from you on any ideas or things you would like to see in our next release.

1.  Start a discussion in our [Discourse community](https://community.fx.land).

2.  Create an issue on one of the Functionland repos.

  * [Fotos issues](https://github.com/functionland/fotos/issues)

  * [Fula issues](https://github.com/functionland/fula/issues)


## Submitting a bug report

If you encounter a bug or anything strange that is happening with the Box components then please create an issue on the [fula](https://github.com/functionland/fula/issues) repo and include the docker-compose server logs.

To output the server logs to a file:

```
  > docker-compose logs >  out.log
```

Then you can attach the file by dragging it onto the issue when you create it.

## Get involved with development

If you are a developer and would like to get involved helping us then we would love to hear from you!  The best way to do that is send an email to [@TODO insert dev intake here]
